docs/docs/Support/luna-for-langflow.md, before:

---
title: Luna for Langflow
slug: /luna-for-langflow
---

With [Luna for Langflow](https://www.datastax.com/products/luna-langflow) support, you can develop and deploy Langflow applications with confidence.

**Luna** is a subscription to the Langflow expertise at DataStax. It's meant for users of Langflow who want all the benefits of running their own open-source deployments, but with the peace of mind that comes with having direct access to the team that has authored the majority of the Langflow code.

**Luna** subscribers can get help with general-purpose and technical questions for their open-source Langflow deployments, and if an issue is encountered, DataStax is there to help.

Ready to subscribe?

Visit the [Luna for Langflow](https://www.datastax.com/products/luna-langflow) product page to get started.

## Supported software

Luna for Langflow support covers only the following software versions for Langflow.

Last updated: May 1, 2025

## Core information
- **Langflow Version**: `1.4.x`
- **Python Version Required**: `>=3.10, <3.14`

Commit message:

change luna to enterprise support

docs/docs/Support/luna-for-langflow.md, after:

---
title: Enterprise support for Langflow
slug: /luna-for-langflow
---

With **Luna for Langflow** support, you can develop and deploy Langflow applications with confidence.

Luna is a subscription to the Langflow expertise at DataStax. It's meant for Langflow users who want all the benefits of running their own open-source deployments, as well as the peace of mind that comes with having direct access to the team that has authored the majority of the Langflow code.

Luna subscribers can get help with general-purpose and technical questions for their open-source Langflow deployments.
If an issue is encountered, DataStax is there to help.

:::info
<!-- Last updated May 1 2025 -->
As of May 2025, Luna for Langflow support covers Langflow versions 1.4.x.

Subscribers must run a supported Python version to receive support.
Supported versions are `>=3.10, <3.14`, which includes all version from 3.10 through 3.13.x, but not 3.14.
:::

To subscribe or learn more, see [Luna for Langflow](https://www.datastax.com/products/luna-langflow).
