docs/docs/Develop/logging.mdx, before:

---
title: Logs
slug: /logging
---

import Icon from "@site/src/components/icon";

This page provides information about Langflow logs, including logs for individual flows and the Langflow application itself.

## Log options

Langflow uses the `loguru` library for logging.

The default `log_level` is `ERROR`. Other options are `DEBUG`, `INFO`, `WARNING`, and `CRITICAL`.

The default logfile is called `langflow.log`, and its location depends on your operating system.

- **macOS Desktop**:`/Users/<username>/.langflow/cache`
- **Windows Desktop**:`C:\Users\<username>\AppData\Roaming\com.Langflow\cache`
- **OSS macOS/Windows/Linux/WSL (uv pip install)**: `<path_to_venv>/lib/python3.12/site-packages/langflow/cache`
- **OSS macOS/Windows/Linux/WSL (git clone)**: `<path_to_clone>/src/backend/base/langflow/cache`

The `LANGFLOW_LOG_ENV` controls log output and formatting. The `container` option outputs serialized JSON to stdout. The `container_csv` option outputs CSV-formatted plain text to stdout. The `default` (or not set) logging option outputs prettified output with [RichHandler](https://rich.readthedocs.io/en/stable/reference/logging.html).

To modify Langflow's logging configuration, add them to your `.env` file and start Langflow.

```text
LANGFLOW_LOG_LEVEL=ERROR
LANGFLOW_LOG_FILE=path/to/logfile.log
LANGFLOW_LOG_ENV=container
```

To start Langflow with the values from your .env file, start Langflow with `uv run langflow run --env-file .env`

## Flow and component logs

After you run a flow, you can inspect the logs for the each component and flow run.
For example, you can inspect `Message` objects ingested and generated by [input and output components](/components-io).

### View flow logs

In the visual editor, click **Logs** to view logs for the entire flow:

![Logs pane](/img/logs.png)

Then, click the cells in the **inputs** and **outputs** columns to inspect the `Message` objects.
For example, the following `Message` data could be the output from a **Chat Input** component:

```text
    "messages": [
    {
        "message": "What's the recommended way to install Docker on Mac M1?",
        "sender": "User",
        "sender_name": "User",
        "session_id": "Session Apr 21, 17:37:04",
        "stream_url": null,
        "component_id": "ChatInput-4WKag",
        "files": [],
        "type": "text"
    }
    ],
```

In the case of Input/Output components, the original input might not be structured as a `Message` object.
For example, a **Language Model** component might pass a raw text response to a **Chat Output** component that is then transformed into a `Message` object.

### View chat logs

In the **Playground**, you can inspect the chat history for each chat session.
For more information, see [Use the Playground](/concepts-playground).

### View output from a single component

When debugging issues with the format or content of a flow's output, it can help to inspect each component's output to determine where data is being lost or malformed.

To view the output produced by a single component during the most recent run, click <Icon name="TextSearch" aria-hidden="true"/> **Inspect output** in the visual editor.

Commit message:

docs: Restructure navigation, refactor all component documentation, among many other things (#9115)
* reorg pt 1

* nav reorg pt 2

* update sidebar ad

* resolve comments and combine app pages

* playground and voice mode rewrite

* fix link

* add separate bundle pages

* add new pages to sidebar

* working on bundles

* moving content to new bundle pages

* move some sidebar items

* fix build

* nav labels

* small edits

* Working on helpers

* core components work

* wrapping up some more agent duplication

* aligning file management

* webhooks and file management

* data components

* address vector store and some legacy components

* finish logic params

* some work on processors

* remove unneeded pages and tidy some llm info

* progress on bundles pt 1

* bundles pt 2

* bundles pt 3

* finish looking at integrations

* it is done

* fix errors

* coderabbit and typos

* coderabbit pt 2

* resolving mcs pt 1

* separate agents and mcp

* still working on some memory stuff

* finish message history alignment

* incorporate PR 9138

* missed a link

* file management ui

* align w ui pr

* Apply suggestions from code review

* memory edits after discussion

docs/docs/Develop/logging.mdx, after:

---
title: Logs
slug: /logging
---

import Icon from "@site/src/components/icon";

This page provides information about Langflow logs, including logs for individual flows and the Langflow application itself.

Langflow uses the `loguru` library for logging.

The default logfile is named `langflow.log`.
Langflow also produces logfiles for flows.

## Log storage

The default logfile storage location depends on your operating system:

- **macOS Desktop**:`/Users/<username>/.langflow/cache`
- **Windows Desktop**:`C:\Users\<username>\AppData\Roaming\com.Langflow\cache`
- **OSS macOS/Windows/Linux/WSL (`uv pip install`)**: `<path_to_venv>/lib/python3.12/site-packages/langflow/cache`
- **OSS macOS/Windows/Linux/WSL (`git clone`)**: `<path_to_clone>/src/backend/base/langflow/cache`

To customize log storage, see [Configure log options](#configure-log-options).

## Configure log options

Use [Langflow environment variables](/environment-variables) to configure logging options in your Langflow `.env` file, and then start Langflow with `uv run langflow run --env-file .env`.

The following environment variables are available to configure logging:

* `LANGFLOW_LOG_LEVEL`: Sets the log level as one of `DEBUG`, `ERROR` (default), `INFO`, `WARNING`, and `CRITICAL`. For example, `LANGFLOW_LOG_LEVEL=DEBUG`.

* `LANGFLOW_LOG_FILE`: Sets the log file storage location if you want to use a non-default location.
For example, `LANGFLOW_LOG_FILE=path/to/logfile.log`.

* `LANGFLOW_LOG_ENV`: Controls log output and formatting.

    * `LANGFLOW_LOG_ENV=container`: Outputs serialized JSON to stdout.
    * `LANGFLOW_LOG_ENV=container_csv`: Outputs CSV-formatted plain text to stdout.
    * `LANGFLOW_LOG_ENV=default` or unset: Outputs prettified output with [RichHandler](https://rich.readthedocs.io/en/stable/reference/logging.html).

A complete example `.env` file is available in the [Langflow repository](https://github.com/langflow-ai/langflow/blob/main/.env.example).

## Flow and component logs

After you run a flow, you can inspect the logs for the each component and flow run.
For example, you can inspect `Message` objects ingested and generated by [input and output components](/components-io).

### View flow logs

In the visual editor, click **Logs** to view logs for the entire flow:

![Logs pane](/img/logs.png)

Then, click the cells in the **inputs** and **outputs** columns to inspect the `Message` objects.
For example, the following `Message` data could be the output from a **Chat Input** component:

```text
    "messages": [
    {
        "message": "What's the recommended way to install Docker on Mac M1?",
        "sender": "User",
        "sender_name": "User",
        "session_id": "Session Apr 21, 17:37:04",
        "stream_url": null,
        "component_id": "ChatInput-4WKag",
        "files": [],
        "type": "text"
    }
    ],
```

In the case of Input/Output components, the original input might not be structured as a `Message` object.
For example, a **Language Model** component might pass a raw text response to a **Chat Output** component that is then transformed into a `Message` object.

You can find `.log` files for flows at your Langflow installation's log storage location.
For filepaths, see [Log storage](#log-storage).

### View chat logs

In the **Playground**, you can inspect the chat history for each chat session.
For more information, see [View chat history](/concepts-playground#view-chat-history).

### View output from a single component

When debugging issues with the format or content of a flow's output, it can help to inspect each component's output to determine where data is being lost or malformed.

To view the output produced by a single component during the most recent run, click <Icon name="TextSearch" aria-hidden="true"/> **Inspect output** in the visual editor.
