docs/docs/Get-Started/get-started-quickstart.md, before:

---
title: Quickstart
slug: /get-started-quickstart
---

import Icon from "@site/src/components/icon";
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

Get started with Langflow by loading a flow, running it, and then serving your flow at the `/run` API endpoint.

## Prerequisites

- [A running Langflow instance](/get-started-installation)
- [An OpenAI API key](https://platform.openai.com/)

## Run the agent template flow

Load the **Simple Agent** template flow, add your OpenAI API key to the agent, and run the flow.

1. To open the **Simple Agent** template flow, click **New Flow**, and then select **Simple Agent**.

![Simple agent starter flow](/img/starter-flow-simple-agent.png)

This flow connects [Chat I/O](/components-io) components with an [Agent](/components-agents) component.
As you ask the agent questions, it calls the connected [Calculator](/components-helpers#calculator) and [URL](/components-data#url) tools for answers, depending on the question.
2. In the agent component, in the **OpenAI API Key** field, add your OpenAI API key.

3. To run the flow, click <Icon name="Play" aria-hidden="true"/> **Playground**.

4. Ask the agent a simple math question, such as `I want to add 4 and 4.`
The Playground displays the agent's reasoning process as it correctly selects the Calculator component's `evaluate_expression` action.

![Playground with Agent calculator tool](/img/quickstart-simple-agent-playground.png)

5. Ask the agent about current events.
For this request, the agent selects the URL component's `fetch_content` action, and returns a summary of current headlines.

You have successfully run your first flow.

Optionally, stop here if you just want to create more flows within Langflow.

If you want to learn how Langflow integrates into external applications, read on.

## Run your flows from external applications

Langflow is an IDE, but it's also a runtime you can call through an API with Python, JavaScript, or curl.
If your server is running, you can POST a request to the `/run` endpoint to run the flow and get the result.

The **API access** pane includes code snippets to get you started sending requests to the server.

1. To open the **API access pane**, in the **Playground**, click **Share**, and then click **API access**.

<Tabs groupId="Language">
  <TabItem value="Python" label="Python" default>

```python
import requests

url = "http://127.0.0.1:7860/api/v1/run/29deb764-af3f-4d7d-94a0-47491ed241d6"  # The complete API endpoint URL for this flow

# Request payload configuration
payload = {
    "output_type": "chat",
    "input_type": "chat",
    "input_value": "hello world!"
}

# Request headers
headers = {
    "Content-Type": "application/json"
}

try:
    # Send API request
    response = requests.request("POST", url, json=payload, headers=headers)
    response.raise_for_status()  # Raise exception for bad status codes

    # Print response
    print(response.text)

except requests.exceptions.RequestException as e:
    print(f"Error making API request: {e}")
except ValueError as e:
    print(f"Error parsing response: {e}")
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="JavaScript" label="JavaScript">

```js
const payload = {
    "output_type": "chat",
    "input_type": "chat",
    "input_value": "hello world!",
    "session_id": "user_1"
};

const options = {
    method: 'POST',
    headers: {
        'Content-Type': 'application/json'
    },
    body: JSON.stringify(payload)
};

fetch('http://localhost:7860/api/v1/run/29deb764-af3f-4d7d-94a0-47491ed241d6', options)
    .then(response => response.json())
    .then(response => console.log(response))
    .catch(err => console.error(err));
```

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="curl" label="curl">

```text
curl --request POST \
     --url 'http://localhost:7860/api/v1/run/29deb764-af3f-4d7d-94a0-47491ed241d6?stream=false' \
     --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
     --data '{
		           "output_type": "chat",
		           "input_type": "chat",
		           "input_value": "hello world!"
		         }'

# A 200 response confirms the call succeeded.
```

  </TabItem>

</Tabs>

The default code in the API access pane constructs a request with the Langflow server `url`, `headers`, and a `payload` of request data.

The payload schema is defined in [schemas.py](https://github.com/langflow-ai/langflow/blob/main/src/backend/base/langflow/api/v1/schemas.py#L354). and accepts the following parameters.

```json
payload = {
    "input_value": "your question here",  # Required: The text you want to send
    "input_type": "chat",                 # Optional: Default is "chat"
    "output_type": "chat",                # Optional: Default is "chat"
    "output_component": "",               # Optional: Specify output component if needed
    "tweaks": None,                      # Optional: Custom adjustments
    "session_id": None                   # Optional: For conversation context
}
```

2. Copy the snippet to your terminal, and send the request.

<details closed>
<summary>Response</summary>

```json
{
  "session_id": "29deb764-af3f-4d7d-94a0-47491ed241d6",
  "outputs": [
    {
      "inputs": {
        "input_value": "hello world!"
      },
      "outputs": [
        {
          "results": {
            "message": {
              "text_key": "text",
              "data": {
                "timestamp": "2025-06-16 19:58:23 UTC",
                "sender": "Machine",
                "sender_name": "AI",
                "session_id": "29deb764-af3f-4d7d-94a0-47491ed241d6",
                "text": "Hello world! 🌍 How can I assist you today?",
                "files": [],
                "error": false,
                "edit": false,
                "properties": {
                  "text_color": "",
                  "background_color": "",
                  "edited": false,
                  "source": {
                    "id": "Agent-ZOknz",
                    "display_name": "Agent",
                    "source": "gpt-4o-mini"
                  },
                  "icon": "bot",
                  "allow_markdown": false,
                  "positive_feedback": null,
                  "state": "complete",
                  "targets": []
                },
                "category": "message",
                "content_blocks": [
                  {
                    "title": "Agent Steps",
                    "contents": [
                      {
                        "type": "text",
                        "duration": 2,
                        "header": {
                          "title": "Input",
                          "icon": "MessageSquare"
                        },
                        "text": "**Input**: hello world!"
                      },
                      {
                        "type": "text",
                        "duration": 226,
                        "header": {
                          "title": "Output",
                          "icon": "MessageSquare"
                        },
                        "text": "Hello world! 🌍 How can I assist you today?"
                      }
                    ],
                    "allow_markdown": true,
                    "media_url": null
                  }
                ],
                "id": "f3d85d9a-261c-4325-b004-95a1bf5de7ca",
                "flow_id": "29deb764-af3f-4d7d-94a0-47491ed241d6",
                "duration": null
              },
              "default_value": "",
              "text": "Hello world! 🌍 How can I assist you today?",
              "sender": "Machine",
              "sender_name": "AI",
              "files": [],
              "session_id": "29deb764-af3f-4d7d-94a0-47491ed241d6",
              "timestamp": "2025-06-16T19:58:23+00:00",
              "flow_id": "29deb764-af3f-4d7d-94a0-47491ed241d6",
              "error": false,
              "edit": false,
              "properties": {
                "text_color": "",
                "background_color": "",
                "edited": false,
                "source": {
                  "id": "Agent-ZOknz",
                  "display_name": "Agent",
                  "source": "gpt-4o-mini"
                },
                "icon": "bot",
                "allow_markdown": false,
                "positive_feedback": null,
                "state": "complete",
                "targets": []
              },
              "category": "message",
              "content_blocks": [
                {
                  "title": "Agent Steps",
                  "contents": [
                    {
                      "type": "text",
                      "duration": 2,
                      "header": {
                        "title": "Input",
                        "icon": "MessageSquare"
                      },
                      "text": "**Input**: hello world!"
                    },
                    {
                      "type": "text",
                      "duration": 226,
                      "header": {
                        "title": "Output",
                        "icon": "MessageSquare"
                      },
                      "text": "Hello world! 🌍 How can I assist you today?"
                    }
                  ],
                  "allow_markdown": true,
                  "media_url": null
                }
              ],
              "duration": null
            }
          },
          "artifacts": {
            "message": "Hello world! 🌍 How can I assist you today?",
            "sender": "Machine",
            "sender_name": "AI",
            "files": [],
            "type": "object"
          },
          "outputs": {
            "message": {
              "message": "Hello world! 🌍 How can I assist you today?",
              "type": "text"
            }
          },
          "logs": {
            "message": []
          },
          "messages": [
            {
              "message": "Hello world! 🌍 How can I assist you today?",
              "sender": "Machine",
              "sender_name": "AI",
              "session_id": "29deb764-af3f-4d7d-94a0-47491ed241d6",
              "stream_url": null,
              "component_id": "ChatOutput-aF5lw",
              "files": [],
              "type": "text"
            }
          ],
          "timedelta": null,
          "duration": null,
          "component_display_name": "Chat Output",
          "component_id": "ChatOutput-aF5lw",
          "used_frozen_result": false
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

</details>

This response confirms the call succeeded, but let's do something more with the returned answer from the agent.

The following example builds on the API pane's example code to create a question-and-answer chat in your terminal that stores the Agent's previous answer.

3. Copy the code into your terminal, and run it.
4. To view the Agent's previous answer, type `compare`. To close the terminal chat, type `exit`.

<Tabs groupId="Languages">
  <TabItem value="Python" label="Python" default>

```python
import requests
import json

url = "http://localhost:7860/api/v1/run/29deb764-af3f-4d7d-94a0-47491ed241d6"

def ask_agent(question):
    payload = {
        "output_type": "chat",
        "input_type": "chat",
        "input_value": question,
    }

    headers = {"Content-Type": "application/json"}

    try:
        response = requests.post(url, json=payload, headers=headers)
        response.raise_for_status()

        # Get the response message
        data = response.json()
        message = data["outputs"][0]["outputs"][0]["outputs"]["message"]["message"]
        return message

    except Exception as e:
        return f"Error: {str(e)}"

def extract_message(data):
    try:
        return data["outputs"][0]["outputs"][0]["outputs"]["message"]["message"]
    except (KeyError, IndexError):
        return None

# Store the previous answer
previous_answer = None

while True:
    # Get user input
    print("\nAsk the agent anything, such as 'What is 15 * 7?' or 'What is the capital of France?')")
    print("Type 'quit' to exit or 'compare' to see the previous answer")
    user_question = input("Your question: ")
    
    if user_question.lower() == 'quit':
        break
    elif user_question.lower() == 'compare':
        if previous_answer:
            print(f"\nPrevious answer was: {previous_answer}")
        else:
            print("\nNo previous answer to compare with!")
        continue
    
    # Get and display the answer
    result = ask_agent(user_question)
    print(f"\nAgent's answer: {result}")    
    # Store the answer for comparison
    previous_answer = result
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="JavaScript" label="JavaScript">

```js
const readline = require('readline');

const rl = readline.createInterface({
    input: process.stdin,
    output: process.stdout
});

const url = 'http://localhost:7860/api/v1/run/29deb764-af3f-4d7d-94a0-47491ed241d6';

// Store the previous answer
let previousAnswer = null;

async function askAgent(question) {
    const payload = {
        "output_type": "chat",
        "input_type": "chat",
        "input_value": question
    };

    const options = {
        method: 'POST',
        headers: {
            'Content-Type': 'application/json'
        },
        body: JSON.stringify(payload)
    };

    try {
        const response = await fetch(url, options);
        const data = await response.json();
        
        // Extract the message from the nested response
        const message = data.outputs[0].outputs[0].outputs.message.message;
        return message;
    } catch (error) {
        return `Error: ${error.message}`;
    }
}

async function startChat() {
    console.log("\nAsk the agent anything, such as 'What is 15 * 7?' or 'What is the capital of France?'");
    console.log("Type 'quit' to exit or 'compare' to see the previous answer");

    const askQuestion = () => {
        rl.question('\nYour question: ', async (userQuestion) => {
            if (userQuestion.toLowerCase() === 'quit') {
                rl.close();
                return;
            }

            if (userQuestion.toLowerCase() === 'compare') {
                if (previousAnswer) {
                    console.log(`\nPrevious answer was: ${previousAnswer}`);
                } else {
                    console.log("\nNo previous answer to compare with!");
                }
                askQuestion();
                return;
            }

            const result = await askAgent(userQuestion);
            console.log(`\nAgent's answer: ${result}`);
            previousAnswer = result;
            askQuestion();
        });
    };

    askQuestion();
}

startChat(); 
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Apply temporary overrides to a flow run

To change a flow's values at runtime, Langflow offers **Temporary Overrides**, also called **Tweaks**.
Tweaks are added to the API request to the `/run` endpoint, and temporarily change component parameters within your flow.
They don't modify the underlying flow configuration or persist between runs.

The easiest way to modify your request with tweaks to the `/run` endpoint is in the **API access** pane, in the **Input schema** pane.

1. In the **Input schema** pane, select the parameter you want to modify in your next request.
Enabling parameters in the **Input schema** pane does not **allow** modifications to the listed parameters. It only adds them to the example code.
2. For example, to change the LLM provider from OpenAI to Groq, and include your Groq API key with the request, select the values **Model Providers**, **Model**, and **Groq API Key**.
The parameters are added to the sample code in the API pane's request.
Inspect your request's payload with the added tweaks.

```json
payload = {
    "output_type": "chat",
    "input_type": "chat",
    "input_value": "hello world!",
    "tweaks": {
        "Agent-ZOknz": {
            "agent_llm": "Groq",
            "api_key": "GROQ_API_KEY",
            "model_name": "llama-3.1-8b-instant"
        }
    }
}
```

3. Copy the code snippet from the **API access** pane into your terminal.
Replace `GROQ_API_KEY` with your Groq API key, and run your application.
You have run your flow without modifying the components themselves, by only passing tweaks with the request.

Commit message:

Apply suggestions from code review
Add suggestions from first half

Co-authored-by: April I. Murphy <36110273+aimurphy@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/docs/Get-Started/get-started-quickstart.md, after:

---
title: Quickstart
slug: /get-started-quickstart
---

import Icon from "@site/src/components/icon";
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

Get started with Langflow by loading a flow, running it, and then serving your flow at the `/run` API endpoint.

## Prerequisites

- [A running Langflow instance](/get-started-installation)
- [An OpenAI API key](https://platform.openai.com/api-keys)

## Run the Simple Agent template flow


1. In Langflow, click **New Flow**, and then select the **Simple Agent** template.

![Simple agent starter flow](/img/starter-flow-simple-agent.png)

This flow connects [Chat I/O](/components-io) components with an [Agent](/components-agents) component.
As you ask the agent questions, it calls the connected [Calculator](/components-helpers#calculator) and [URL](/components-data#url) tools for answers, depending on the question.
2. In the agent component, in the **OpenAI API Key** field, add your OpenAI API key.

3. To run the flow, click <Icon name="Play" aria-hidden="true"/> **Playground**.

4. To test the Calculator tool, ask the agent a simple math question, such as `I want to add 4 and 4.`
To help you test and evaluate your flows, the Playground shows the agent's reasoning process as it analyzes the prompt, selects a tool, and then uses the tool to generate a response.
In this case, a math question causes the agent to select the Calculator tool and use an action like `evaluate_expression`.

![Playground with Agent calculator tool](/img/quickstart-simple-agent-playground.png)

5. To test the URL tool, ask the agent about current events.
For this request, the agent selects the URL tool's `fetch_content` action, and then returns a summary of current news headlines.

6. When you are done testing the flow, click <X ICON> **Close**.

Now that you've run your first flow, try these next steps:

- Edit your **Simple Agent** flow by attaching different tools or adding more components to the flow.
- Build your own flows from scratch or by modifying other template flows.
- Integrate flows into your applications, as explained in [Run your flows from external applications](#run-your-flows-from-external-applications)

Optionally, stop here if you just want to create more flows within Langflow.

If you want to learn how Langflow integrates into external applications, read on.

## Run your flows from external applications

Langflow is an IDE, but it's also a runtime you can call through an API with Python, JavaScript, or curl.
If your server is running, you can POST a request to the `/run` endpoint to run the flow and get the result.

The **API access** pane includes code snippets to get you started sending requests to the server.

1. To open the **API access pane**, in the **Playground**, click **Share**, and then click **API access**.

<Tabs groupId="Language">
  <TabItem value="Python" label="Python" default>

```python
import requests

url = "http://127.0.0.1:7860/api/v1/run/29deb764-af3f-4d7d-94a0-47491ed241d6"  # The complete API endpoint URL for this flow

# Request payload configuration
payload = {
    "output_type": "chat",
    "input_type": "chat",
    "input_value": "hello world!"
}

# Request headers
headers = {
    "Content-Type": "application/json"
}

try:
    # Send API request
    response = requests.request("POST", url, json=payload, headers=headers)
    response.raise_for_status()  # Raise exception for bad status codes

    # Print response
    print(response.text)

except requests.exceptions.RequestException as e:
    print(f"Error making API request: {e}")
except ValueError as e:
    print(f"Error parsing response: {e}")
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="JavaScript" label="JavaScript">

```js
const payload = {
    "output_type": "chat",
    "input_type": "chat",
    "input_value": "hello world!",
    "session_id": "user_1"
};

const options = {
    method: 'POST',
    headers: {
        'Content-Type': 'application/json'
    },
    body: JSON.stringify(payload)
};

fetch('http://localhost:7860/api/v1/run/29deb764-af3f-4d7d-94a0-47491ed241d6', options)
    .then(response => response.json())
    .then(response => console.log(response))
    .catch(err => console.error(err));
```

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="curl" label="curl">

```text
curl --request POST \
     --url 'http://localhost:7860/api/v1/run/29deb764-af3f-4d7d-94a0-47491ed241d6?stream=false' \
     --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
     --data '{
		           "output_type": "chat",
		           "input_type": "chat",
		           "input_value": "hello world!"
		         }'

# A 200 response confirms the call succeeded.
```

  </TabItem>

</Tabs>

The default code in the API access pane constructs a request with the Langflow server `url`, `headers`, and a `payload` of request data.

The payload schema is defined in [schemas.py](https://github.com/langflow-ai/langflow/blob/main/src/backend/base/langflow/api/v1/schemas.py#L354). and accepts the following parameters.

```json
payload = {
    "input_value": "your question here",  # Required: The text you want to send
    "input_type": "chat",                 # Optional: Default is "chat"
    "output_type": "chat",                # Optional: Default is "chat"
    "output_component": "",               # Optional: Specify output component if needed
    "tweaks": None,                      # Optional: Custom adjustments
    "session_id": None                   # Optional: For conversation context
}
```

2. Copy the snippet to your terminal, and send the request.

<details closed>
<summary>Response</summary>

```json
{
  "session_id": "29deb764-af3f-4d7d-94a0-47491ed241d6",
  "outputs": [
    {
      "inputs": {
        "input_value": "hello world!"
      },
      "outputs": [
        {
          "results": {
            "message": {
              "text_key": "text",
              "data": {
                "timestamp": "2025-06-16 19:58:23 UTC",
                "sender": "Machine",
                "sender_name": "AI",
                "session_id": "29deb764-af3f-4d7d-94a0-47491ed241d6",
                "text": "Hello world! 🌍 How can I assist you today?",
                "files": [],
                "error": false,
                "edit": false,
                "properties": {
                  "text_color": "",
                  "background_color": "",
                  "edited": false,
                  "source": {
                    "id": "Agent-ZOknz",
                    "display_name": "Agent",
                    "source": "gpt-4o-mini"
                  },
                  "icon": "bot",
                  "allow_markdown": false,
                  "positive_feedback": null,
                  "state": "complete",
                  "targets": []
                },
                "category": "message",
                "content_blocks": [
                  {
                    "title": "Agent Steps",
                    "contents": [
                      {
                        "type": "text",
                        "duration": 2,
                        "header": {
                          "title": "Input",
                          "icon": "MessageSquare"
                        },
                        "text": "**Input**: hello world!"
                      },
                      {
                        "type": "text",
                        "duration": 226,
                        "header": {
                          "title": "Output",
                          "icon": "MessageSquare"
                        },
                        "text": "Hello world! 🌍 How can I assist you today?"
                      }
                    ],
                    "allow_markdown": true,
                    "media_url": null
                  }
                ],
                "id": "f3d85d9a-261c-4325-b004-95a1bf5de7ca",
                "flow_id": "29deb764-af3f-4d7d-94a0-47491ed241d6",
                "duration": null
              },
              "default_value": "",
              "text": "Hello world! 🌍 How can I assist you today?",
              "sender": "Machine",
              "sender_name": "AI",
              "files": [],
              "session_id": "29deb764-af3f-4d7d-94a0-47491ed241d6",
              "timestamp": "2025-06-16T19:58:23+00:00",
              "flow_id": "29deb764-af3f-4d7d-94a0-47491ed241d6",
              "error": false,
              "edit": false,
              "properties": {
                "text_color": "",
                "background_color": "",
                "edited": false,
                "source": {
                  "id": "Agent-ZOknz",
                  "display_name": "Agent",
                  "source": "gpt-4o-mini"
                },
                "icon": "bot",
                "allow_markdown": false,
                "positive_feedback": null,
                "state": "complete",
                "targets": []
              },
              "category": "message",
              "content_blocks": [
                {
                  "title": "Agent Steps",
                  "contents": [
                    {
                      "type": "text",
                      "duration": 2,
                      "header": {
                        "title": "Input",
                        "icon": "MessageSquare"
                      },
                      "text": "**Input**: hello world!"
                    },
                    {
                      "type": "text",
                      "duration": 226,
                      "header": {
                        "title": "Output",
                        "icon": "MessageSquare"
                      },
                      "text": "Hello world! 🌍 How can I assist you today?"
                    }
                  ],
                  "allow_markdown": true,
                  "media_url": null
                }
              ],
              "duration": null
            }
          },
          "artifacts": {
            "message": "Hello world! 🌍 How can I assist you today?",
            "sender": "Machine",
            "sender_name": "AI",
            "files": [],
            "type": "object"
          },
          "outputs": {
            "message": {
              "message": "Hello world! 🌍 How can I assist you today?",
              "type": "text"
            }
          },
          "logs": {
            "message": []
          },
          "messages": [
            {
              "message": "Hello world! 🌍 How can I assist you today?",
              "sender": "Machine",
              "sender_name": "AI",
              "session_id": "29deb764-af3f-4d7d-94a0-47491ed241d6",
              "stream_url": null,
              "component_id": "ChatOutput-aF5lw",
              "files": [],
              "type": "text"
            }
          ],
          "timedelta": null,
          "duration": null,
          "component_display_name": "Chat Output",
          "component_id": "ChatOutput-aF5lw",
          "used_frozen_result": false
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

</details>

This response confirms the call succeeded, but let's do something more with the returned answer from the agent.

The following example builds on the API pane's example code to create a question-and-answer chat in your terminal that stores the Agent's previous answer.

3. Copy the code into your terminal, and run it.
4. To view the Agent's previous answer, type `compare`. To close the terminal chat, type `exit`.

<Tabs groupId="Languages">
  <TabItem value="Python" label="Python" default>

```python
import requests
import json

url = "http://localhost:7860/api/v1/run/29deb764-af3f-4d7d-94a0-47491ed241d6"

def ask_agent(question):
    payload = {
        "output_type": "chat",
        "input_type": "chat",
        "input_value": question,
    }

    headers = {"Content-Type": "application/json"}

    try:
        response = requests.post(url, json=payload, headers=headers)
        response.raise_for_status()

        # Get the response message
        data = response.json()
        message = data["outputs"][0]["outputs"][0]["outputs"]["message"]["message"]
        return message

    except Exception as e:
        return f"Error: {str(e)}"

def extract_message(data):
    try:
        return data["outputs"][0]["outputs"][0]["outputs"]["message"]["message"]
    except (KeyError, IndexError):
        return None

# Store the previous answer
previous_answer = None

while True:
    # Get user input
    print("\nAsk the agent anything, such as 'What is 15 * 7?' or 'What is the capital of France?')")
    print("Type 'quit' to exit or 'compare' to see the previous answer")
    user_question = input("Your question: ")
    
    if user_question.lower() == 'quit':
        break
    elif user_question.lower() == 'compare':
        if previous_answer:
            print(f"\nPrevious answer was: {previous_answer}")
        else:
            print("\nNo previous answer to compare with!")
        continue
    
    # Get and display the answer
    result = ask_agent(user_question)
    print(f"\nAgent's answer: {result}")    
    # Store the answer for comparison
    previous_answer = result
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="JavaScript" label="JavaScript">

```js
const readline = require('readline');

const rl = readline.createInterface({
    input: process.stdin,
    output: process.stdout
});

const url = 'http://localhost:7860/api/v1/run/29deb764-af3f-4d7d-94a0-47491ed241d6';

// Store the previous answer
let previousAnswer = null;

async function askAgent(question) {
    const payload = {
        "output_type": "chat",
        "input_type": "chat",
        "input_value": question
    };

    const options = {
        method: 'POST',
        headers: {
            'Content-Type': 'application/json'
        },
        body: JSON.stringify(payload)
    };

    try {
        const response = await fetch(url, options);
        const data = await response.json();
        
        // Extract the message from the nested response
        const message = data.outputs[0].outputs[0].outputs.message.message;
        return message;
    } catch (error) {
        return `Error: ${error.message}`;
    }
}

async function startChat() {
    console.log("\nAsk the agent anything, such as 'What is 15 * 7?' or 'What is the capital of France?'");
    console.log("Type 'quit' to exit or 'compare' to see the previous answer");

    const askQuestion = () => {
        rl.question('\nYour question: ', async (userQuestion) => {
            if (userQuestion.toLowerCase() === 'quit') {
                rl.close();
                return;
            }

            if (userQuestion.toLowerCase() === 'compare') {
                if (previousAnswer) {
                    console.log(`\nPrevious answer was: ${previousAnswer}`);
                } else {
                    console.log("\nNo previous answer to compare with!");
                }
                askQuestion();
                return;
            }

            const result = await askAgent(userQuestion);
            console.log(`\nAgent's answer: ${result}`);
            previousAnswer = result;
            askQuestion();
        });
    };

    askQuestion();
}

startChat(); 
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Apply temporary overrides to a flow run

To change a flow's values at runtime, Langflow offers **Temporary Overrides**, also called **Tweaks**.
Tweaks are added to the API request to the `/run` endpoint, and temporarily change component parameters within your flow.
They don't modify the underlying flow configuration or persist between runs.

The easiest way to modify your request with tweaks to the `/run` endpoint is in the **API access** pane, in the **Input schema** pane.

1. In the **Input schema** pane, select the parameter you want to modify in your next request.
Enabling parameters in the **Input schema** pane does not **allow** modifications to the listed parameters. It only adds them to the example code.
2. For example, to change the LLM provider from OpenAI to Groq, and include your Groq API key with the request, select the values **Model Providers**, **Model**, and **Groq API Key**.
The parameters are added to the sample code in the API pane's request.
Inspect your request's payload with the added tweaks.

```json
payload = {
    "output_type": "chat",
    "input_type": "chat",
    "input_value": "hello world!",
    "tweaks": {
        "Agent-ZOknz": {
            "agent_llm": "Groq",
            "api_key": "GROQ_API_KEY",
            "model_name": "llama-3.1-8b-instant"
        }
    }
}
```

3. Copy the code snippet from the **API access** pane into your terminal.
Replace `GROQ_API_KEY` with your Groq API key, and run your application.
You have run your flow without modifying the components themselves, by only passing tweaks with the request.
