docs/docs/Deployment/deployment-docker.mdx, before:

---
title: Deploy Langflow on Docker
slug: /deployment-docker
---

Running applications in Docker containers ensures consistent behavior across different systems and eliminates dependency conflicts.

You can use the Langflow Docker image to start a Langflow container.

This guide demonstrates several ways to deploy Langflow with [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/) and [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/):

* [Quickstart: Start a Langflow container with default values](#quickstart)
* [Clone the repo and use Docker Compose to build the Langflow Docker container](#clone-the-repo-and-build-the-langflow-docker-container) with a persistent PostgreSQL database service
* [Use a Dockerfile to package a flow as a Docker image](#package-your-flow-as-a-docker-image)
* [Customize the Langflow Docker image](#customize-the-langflow-docker-image-with-your-own-code)

## Quickstart: Start a Langflow container with default values {#quickstart}

With Docker installed and running on your system, run the following command:

`docker run -p 7860:7860 langflowai/langflow:latest`

Then, access Langflow at `http://localhost:7860/`.

## Clone the repo and run the Langflow Docker container

The quickstart container runs a pre-built Docker image with default settings.
Cloning the repository and using Docker Compose gives you more control over your configuration, allowing you to customize environment variables, use a persistent PostgreSQL database instead of the default SQLite, and include custom dependencies.

Use Docker Compose to build Langflow with a persistent PostgreSQL database service. The default deployment includes:

- **Langflow service**: Runs the latest Langflow image with PostgreSQL as the database.
- **PostgreSQL service**: Provides persistent data storage for flows, users, and settings.
- **Persistent volumes**: Ensures your data survives container restarts.

The complete Docker Compose configuration is available in the `docker_example/docker-compose.yml` file.

1. Clone the Langflow repository:

   `git clone https://github.com/langflow-ai/langflow.git`

2. Navigate to the `docker_example` directory:

   `cd langflow/docker_example`

3. Run the Docker Compose file:

   `docker compose up`

4. Access Langflow at `http://localhost:7860/`.

### Customize your deployment

You can customize the Docker Compose configuration to fit your specific deployment.

For example, to configure the container's database credentials using a `.env` file, do the following:

1. Create a `.env` file with your database credentials in the same directory as `docker-compose.yml`:

    ```bash
    # Database credentials
    POSTGRES_USER=myuser
    POSTGRES_PASSWORD=mypassword
    POSTGRES_DB=langflow

    # Langflow configuration
    LANGFLOW_DATABASE_URL=postgresql://myuser:mypassword@postgres:5432/langflow
    LANGFLOW_CONFIG_DIR=/app/langflow
    ```

2. Modify the `docker-compose.yml` file to reference the `.env` file for both the `langflow` and `postgres` services:

    ```yaml
    services:
      langflow:
        environment:
          - LANGFLOW_DATABASE_URL=${LANGFLOW_DATABASE_URL}
          - LANGFLOW_CONFIG_DIR=${LANGFLOW_CONFIG_DIR}
      postgres:
        environment:
          - POSTGRES_USER=${POSTGRES_USER}
          - POSTGRES_PASSWORD=${POSTGRES_PASSWORD}
          - POSTGRES_DB=${POSTGRES_DB}
    ```

For a complete list of available environment variables, see the [Langflow environment variables](/environment-variables) documentation.

## Package your flow as a Docker image {#package-your-flow-as-a-docker-image}

This section shows you how to create a Dockerfile that builds a Docker image containing your Langflow flow. This approach is useful when you want to distribute a specific flow as a standalone container or deploy it to environments like Kubernetes.

Unlike the previous sections that use pre-built images, this method builds a custom image with your flow embedded inside it.

1. Create a project directory, and change directory into it.

    ```bash
    mkdir langflow-custom && cd langflow-custom
    ```

2. Add your flow's JSON file to the directory. You can download an example, or use your own:

    ```bash
    # Download an example flow
    wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/langflow-ai/langflow-helm-charts/refs/heads/main/examples/flows/basic-prompting-hello-world.json

    # Or copy your own flow file
    cp /path/to/your/flow.json .
    ```

3. Create a Dockerfile to build your custom image:

    ```dockerfile
    FROM langflowai/langflow:latest
    RUN mkdir /app/flows
    COPY ./*.json /app/flows/
    ENV LANGFLOW_LOAD_FLOWS_PATH=/app/flows
    ```

This Dockerfile uses the official Langflow image as the base, creates a directory for your flows, copies your JSON flow files into the directory, and sets the environment variable to tell Langflow where to find the flows.

4. Build and test your custom image:

    ```bash
    docker build -t myuser/langflow-custom:1.0.0 .
    docker run -p 7860:7860 myuser/langflow-custom:1.0.0
    ```

5. Push your image to Docker Hub (optional):

    ```bash
    docker push myuser/langflow-custom:1.0.0
    ```

Your custom image now contains your flow and can be deployed anywhere Docker runs. For Kubernetes deployment, see [Deploy the Langflow production environment on Kubernetes](/deployment-kubernetes-prod).

## Customize the Langflow Docker image with your own code

You can customize the Langflow Docker image by adding your own code or modifying existing components.

This example Dockerfile demonstrates how to customize Langflow by replacing the `astradb_graph.py` component, but the pattern can be adapted for any other components or custom code.

```dockerfile
FROM langflowai/langflow:latest
# Set working directory
WORKDIR /app
# Copy your modified astradb_graph.py file
COPY src/backend/base/langflow/components/vectorstores/astradb_graph.py /tmp/astradb_graph.py
# Find the site-packages directory where langflow is installed
RUN python -c "import site; print(site.getsitepackages()[0])" > /tmp/site_packages.txt
# Replace the file in the site-packages location
RUN SITE_PACKAGES=$(cat /tmp/site_packages.txt) && \
    echo "Site packages at: $SITE_PACKAGES" && \
    mkdir -p "$SITE_PACKAGES/langflow/components/vectorstores" && \
    cp /tmp/astradb_graph.py "$SITE_PACKAGES/langflow/components/vectorstores/"
# Clear Python cache in the site-packages directory only
RUN SITE_PACKAGES=$(cat /tmp/site_packages.txt) && \
    find "$SITE_PACKAGES" -name "*.pyc" -delete && \
    find "$SITE_PACKAGES" -name "__pycache__" -type d -exec rm -rf {} +
# Expose the default Langflow port
EXPOSE 7860
# Command to run Langflow
CMD ["python", "-m", "langflow", "run", "--host", "0.0.0.0", "--port", "7860"]
```

To use this custom Dockerfile, do the following:

1. Create a directory for your custom Langflow setup:
```bash
mkdir langflow-custom && cd langflow-custom
```

2. Create the necessary directory structure for your custom code.
In this example, Langflow expects `astradb_graph.py` to exist in the `/vectorstores` directory, so you create a directory in that location.
```bash
mkdir -p src/backend/base/langflow/components/vectorstores
```

3. Place your modified `astradb_graph.py` file in the `/vectorstores` directory.

4. Create a new file named `Dockerfile` in your `langflow-custom` directory, and then copy the Dockerfile contents shown above into it.

5. Build and run the image:
```bash
docker build -t myuser/langflow-custom:1.0.0 .
docker run -p 7860:7860 myuser/langflow-custom:1.0.0
```

This approach can be adapted for any other components or custom code you want to add to Langflow by modifying the file paths and component names.

Commit message:

custom-python-files-in-dockerfile

docs/docs/Deployment/deployment-docker.mdx, after:

---
title: Deploy Langflow on Docker
slug: /deployment-docker
---

Running applications in Docker containers ensures consistent behavior across different systems and eliminates dependency conflicts.

You can use the Langflow Docker image to start a Langflow container.

This guide demonstrates several ways to deploy Langflow with [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/) and [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/):

* [Quickstart: Start a Langflow container with default values](#quickstart)
* [Clone the repo and use Docker Compose to build the Langflow Docker container](#clone-the-repo-and-build-the-langflow-docker-container) with a persistent PostgreSQL database service
* [Use a Dockerfile to package a flow as a Docker image](#package-your-flow-as-a-docker-image)
* [Customize the Langflow Docker image](#customize-the-langflow-docker-image-with-your-own-code)

## Quickstart: Start a Langflow container with default values {#quickstart}

With Docker installed and running on your system, run the following command:

`docker run -p 7860:7860 langflowai/langflow:latest`

Then, access Langflow at `http://localhost:7860/`.

## Clone the repo and run the Langflow Docker container

The quickstart container runs a pre-built Docker image with default settings.
Cloning the repository and using Docker Compose gives you more control over your configuration, allowing you to customize environment variables, use a persistent PostgreSQL database instead of the default SQLite, and include custom dependencies.

Use Docker Compose to build Langflow with a persistent PostgreSQL database service. The default deployment includes:

- **Langflow service**: Runs the latest Langflow image with PostgreSQL as the database.
- **PostgreSQL service**: Provides persistent data storage for flows, users, and settings.
- **Persistent volumes**: Ensures your data survives container restarts.

The complete Docker Compose configuration is available in the `docker_example/docker-compose.yml` file.

1. Clone the Langflow repository:

   `git clone https://github.com/langflow-ai/langflow.git`

2. Navigate to the `docker_example` directory:

   `cd langflow/docker_example`

3. Run the Docker Compose file:

   `docker compose up`

4. Access Langflow at `http://localhost:7860/`.

### Customize your deployment

You can customize the Docker Compose configuration to fit your specific deployment.

For example, to configure the container's database credentials using a `.env` file, do the following:

1. Create a `.env` file with your database credentials in the same directory as `docker-compose.yml`:

    ```bash
    # Database credentials
    POSTGRES_USER=myuser
    POSTGRES_PASSWORD=mypassword
    POSTGRES_DB=langflow

    # Langflow configuration
    LANGFLOW_DATABASE_URL=postgresql://myuser:mypassword@postgres:5432/langflow
    LANGFLOW_CONFIG_DIR=/app/langflow
    ```

2. Modify the `docker-compose.yml` file to reference the `.env` file for both the `langflow` and `postgres` services:

    ```yaml
    services:
      langflow:
        environment:
          - LANGFLOW_DATABASE_URL=${LANGFLOW_DATABASE_URL}
          - LANGFLOW_CONFIG_DIR=${LANGFLOW_CONFIG_DIR}
      postgres:
        environment:
          - POSTGRES_USER=${POSTGRES_USER}
          - POSTGRES_PASSWORD=${POSTGRES_PASSWORD}
          - POSTGRES_DB=${POSTGRES_DB}
    ```

For a complete list of available environment variables, see the [Langflow environment variables](/environment-variables) documentation.

## Package your flow as a Docker image {#package-your-flow-as-a-docker-image}

This section shows you how to create a Dockerfile that builds a Docker image containing your Langflow flow. This approach is useful when you want to distribute a specific flow as a standalone container or deploy it to environments like Kubernetes.

Unlike the previous sections that use pre-built images, this method builds a custom image with your flow embedded inside it.

1. Create a project directory, and change directory into it.

    ```bash
    mkdir langflow-custom && cd langflow-custom
    ```

2. Add your flow's JSON file to the directory. You can download an example, or use your own:

    ```bash
    # Download an example flow
    wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/langflow-ai/langflow-helm-charts/refs/heads/main/examples/flows/basic-prompting-hello-world.json

    # Or copy your own flow file
    cp /path/to/your/flow.json .
    ```

3. Create a Dockerfile to build your custom image:

    ```dockerfile
    FROM langflowai/langflow:latest
    RUN mkdir /app/flows
    COPY ./*.json /app/flows/
    ENV LANGFLOW_LOAD_FLOWS_PATH=/app/flows
    ```

This Dockerfile uses the official Langflow image as the base, creates a directory for your flows, copies your JSON flow files into the directory, and sets the environment variable to tell Langflow where to find the flows.

4. Build and test your custom image:

    ```bash
    docker build -t myuser/langflow-custom:1.0.0 .
    docker run -p 7860:7860 myuser/langflow-custom:1.0.0
    ```

5. Push your image to Docker Hub (optional):

    ```bash
    docker push myuser/langflow-custom:1.0.0
    ```

Your custom image now contains your flow and can be deployed anywhere Docker runs. For Kubernetes deployment, see [Deploy the Langflow production environment on Kubernetes](/deployment-kubernetes-prod).

## Customize the Langflow Docker image with your own code

While the previous section showed how to package a flow with a Docker image, this section shows how to customize the Langflow application itself. This is useful when you need to add custom Python packages or dependencies, modify Langflow's configuration or settings, include custom components or tools, or add your own code to extend Langflow's functionality.

This example demonstrates how to customize the message history component, but the same approach can be used for any code modifications.

```dockerfile
FROM langflowai/langflow:latest
# Set working directory
WORKDIR /app
# Copy your modified memory component
COPY src/backend/base/langflow/components/helpers/memory.py /tmp/memory.py
# Find the site-packages directory where langflow is installed
RUN python -c "import site; print(site.getsitepackages()[0])" > /tmp/site_packages.txt
# Replace the file in the site-packages location
RUN SITE_PACKAGES=$(cat /tmp/site_packages.txt) && \
    echo "Site packages at: $SITE_PACKAGES" && \
    mkdir -p "$SITE_PACKAGES/langflow/components/helpers" && \
    cp /tmp/memory.py "$SITE_PACKAGES/langflow/components/helpers/"
# Clear Python cache in the site-packages directory only
RUN SITE_PACKAGES=$(cat /tmp/site_packages.txt) && \
    find "$SITE_PACKAGES" -name "*.pyc" -delete && \
    find "$SITE_PACKAGES" -name "__pycache__" -type d -exec rm -rf {} +
# Expose the default Langflow port
EXPOSE 7860
# Command to run Langflow
CMD ["python", "-m", "langflow", "run", "--host", "0.0.0.0", "--port", "7860"]
```

To use this custom Dockerfile, do the following:

1. Create a directory for your custom Langflow setup:
    ```bash
    mkdir langflow-custom && cd langflow-custom
    ```

2. Create the necessary directory structure for your custom code.
In this example, Langflow expects `memory.py` to exist in the `/helpers` directory, so you create a directory in that location.
    ```bash
    mkdir -p src/backend/base/langflow/components/helpers
    ```

3. Place your modified `memory.py` file in the `/helpers` directory.

4. Create a new file named `Dockerfile` in your `langflow-custom` directory, and then copy the Dockerfile contents shown above into it.

5. Build and run the image:
    ```bash
    docker build -t myuser/langflow-custom:1.0.0 .
    docker run -p 7860:7860 myuser/langflow-custom:1.0.0
    ```

This approach can be adapted for any other components or custom code you want to add to Langflow by modifying the file paths and component names.
