docs/docs/Concepts/concepts-flows.md, before:

---
title: Flows
slug: /concepts-flows
---

import Icon from "@site/src/components/icon";

Flows in Langflow are fully serializable and can be saved and loaded from the file system. In this guide, we'll explore how to import and export flows.

## Import flow

If you already have a Langflow JSON file, from the **Projects** page, click <Icon name="Upload" aria-hidden="true"/> **Upload a flow**.

Once imported, your flow is ready to use.

:::tip
You can drag and drop Langflow JSON files directly from your file system into the Langflow window to import a flow, even into the initial Langflow splash screen.
:::

## Export flow

To **Export** your flow, in the **Playground**, click **Share**, and then click **Export**.

The `FLOW_NAME.json` file is downloaded to your local machine.

## Langflow JSON file contents

Langflow JSON files contain [nodes](#nodes) and [edges](#edges) that describe components and connections, and [additional metadata](#additional-metadata-and-project-information) that describe the flow.

For an example Langflow JSON file, examine the [Basic Prompting.json](https://github.com/langflow-ai/langflow/blob/main/src/backend/base/langflow/initial_setup/starter_projects/Basic%20Prompting.json) file in the Langflow repository.

### Nodes

**Nodes** represent the components that make up the flow.

The `ChatInput` node is the entry point of the flow. It's the first node that will be executed.

`ChatInput-jFwUm` is a unique identifier for the node.

```json
{
  "data": {
    "description": "Get chat inputs from the Playground.",
    "display_name": "Chat Input",
    "id": "ChatInput-jFwUm",
    "node": {
      "base_classes": ["Message"],
      "description": "Get chat inputs from the Playground.",
      "display_name": "Chat Input",
      "icon": "MessagesSquare",
      "template": {
        "input_value": {
          "display_name": "Text",
          "info": "Message to be passed as input.",
          "value": "Hello"
        },
        "sender": {
          "value": "User",
          "options": ["Machine", "User"]
        },
        "sender_name": {
          "value": "User"
        },
        "should_store_message": {
          "value": true
        }
      }
    },
    "type": "ChatInput"
  },
  "position": {
    "x": 689.5720422421635,
    "y": 765.155834131403
  }
}
```

### Edges

**Edges** represent the connections between nodes.

The connection between the `ChatInput` node and the `OpenAIModel` node is represented as an edge:

```json
{
  "className": "",
  "data": {
    "sourceHandle": {
      "dataType": "ChatInput",
      "id": "ChatInput-jFwUm",
      "name": "message",
      "output_types": ["Message"]
    },
    "targetHandle": {
      "fieldName": "input_value",
      "id": "OpenAIModel-OcXkl",
      "inputTypes": ["Message"],
      "type": "str"
    }
  },
  "id": "reactflow__edge-ChatInput-jFwUm{œdataTypeœ:œChatInputœ,œidœ:œChatInput-jFwUmœ,œnameœ:œmessageœ,œoutput_typesœ:[œMessageœ]}-OpenAIModel-OcXkl{œfieldNameœ:œinput_valueœ,œidœ:œOpenAIModel-OcXklœ,œinputTypesœ:[œMessageœ],œtypeœ:œstrœ}",
  "source": "ChatInput-jFwUm",
  "sourceHandle": "{œdataTypeœ: œChatInputœ, œidœ: œChatInput-jFwUmœ, œnameœ: œmessageœ, œoutput_typesœ: [œMessageœ]}",
  "target": "OpenAIModel-OcXkl",
  "targetHandle": "{œfieldNameœ: œinput_valueœ, œidœ: œOpenAIModel-OcXklœ, œinputTypesœ: [œMessageœ], œtypeœ: œstrœ}"
}
```

This edge shows that the `ChatInput` component outputs a `Message` type to the `target` node, which is the `OpenAIModel` node.
The `OpenAIModel` component accepts the `Message` type at the `input_value` field.

### Additional metadata and project information

Additional information about the flow is stored in the root `data` object.

* Metadata and project information including the name, description, and `last_tested_version` of the flow.
```json
{
  "name": "Basic Prompting",
  "description": "Perform basic prompting with an OpenAI model.",
  "tags": ["chatbots"],
  "id": "1511c230-d446-43a7-bfc3-539e69ce05b8",
  "last_tested_version": "1.0.19.post2",
  "gradient": "2",
  "icon": "Braces"
}
```

* Visual information about the flow defining the initial position of the flow in the workspace.
```json
"viewport": {
  "x": -37.61270157375441,
  "y": -155.91266341888854,
  "zoom": 0.7575251406952855
}
```

**Notes** are like comments to help you understand the flow within the workspace.
They may contain links, code snippets, and other information.
Notes are written in Markdown and stored as `node` objects.
```json
{
  "id": "undefined-kVLkG",
  "node": {
    "description": "## 📖 README\nPerform basic prompting with an OpenAI model.\n\n#### Quick Start\n- Add your **OpenAI API key** to the **OpenAI Model**\n- Open the **Playground** to chat with your bot.\n..."
  }
}
```

Commit message:

clarify-global-env-with-export

docs/docs/Concepts/concepts-flows.md, after:

---
title: Flows
slug: /concepts-flows
---

import Icon from "@site/src/components/icon";

Flows in Langflow are fully serializable and can be saved and loaded from the file system. In this guide, we'll explore how to import and export flows.

## Import flow

If you already have a Langflow JSON file, from the **Projects** page, click <Icon name="Upload" aria-hidden="true"/> **Upload a flow**.

Once imported, your flow is ready to use.

:::tip
You can drag and drop Langflow JSON files directly from your file system into the Langflow window to import a flow, even into the initial Langflow splash screen.
:::

## Export flow

To **Export** your flow, in the **Playground**, click **Share**, and then click **Export**.

Select **Save with my API keys** to save the flow with any **Global Variables** included.
Raw values such as API keys are **not included** with your flow file, only the global variable you created to contain the value.
When you share your flow file with another user who has these global variables populated, the flow will run without requiring keys to be added again.

The `FLOW_NAME.json` file is downloaded to your local machine.

## Langflow JSON file contents

Langflow JSON files contain [nodes](#nodes) and [edges](#edges) that describe components and connections, and [additional metadata](#additional-metadata-and-project-information) that describe the flow.

For an example Langflow JSON file, examine the [Basic Prompting.json](https://github.com/langflow-ai/langflow/blob/main/src/backend/base/langflow/initial_setup/starter_projects/Basic%20Prompting.json) file in the Langflow repository.

### Nodes

**Nodes** represent the components that make up the flow.

The `ChatInput` node is the entry point of the flow. It's the first node that will be executed.

`ChatInput-jFwUm` is a unique identifier for the node.

```json
{
  "data": {
    "description": "Get chat inputs from the Playground.",
    "display_name": "Chat Input",
    "id": "ChatInput-jFwUm",
    "node": {
      "base_classes": ["Message"],
      "description": "Get chat inputs from the Playground.",
      "display_name": "Chat Input",
      "icon": "MessagesSquare",
      "template": {
        "input_value": {
          "display_name": "Text",
          "info": "Message to be passed as input.",
          "value": "Hello"
        },
        "sender": {
          "value": "User",
          "options": ["Machine", "User"]
        },
        "sender_name": {
          "value": "User"
        },
        "should_store_message": {
          "value": true
        }
      }
    },
    "type": "ChatInput"
  },
  "position": {
    "x": 689.5720422421635,
    "y": 765.155834131403
  }
}
```

### Edges

**Edges** represent the connections between nodes.

The connection between the `ChatInput` node and the `OpenAIModel` node is represented as an edge:

```json
{
  "className": "",
  "data": {
    "sourceHandle": {
      "dataType": "ChatInput",
      "id": "ChatInput-jFwUm",
      "name": "message",
      "output_types": ["Message"]
    },
    "targetHandle": {
      "fieldName": "input_value",
      "id": "OpenAIModel-OcXkl",
      "inputTypes": ["Message"],
      "type": "str"
    }
  },
  "id": "reactflow__edge-ChatInput-jFwUm{œdataTypeœ:œChatInputœ,œidœ:œChatInput-jFwUmœ,œnameœ:œmessageœ,œoutput_typesœ:[œMessageœ]}-OpenAIModel-OcXkl{œfieldNameœ:œinput_valueœ,œidœ:œOpenAIModel-OcXklœ,œinputTypesœ:[œMessageœ],œtypeœ:œstrœ}",
  "source": "ChatInput-jFwUm",
  "sourceHandle": "{œdataTypeœ: œChatInputœ, œidœ: œChatInput-jFwUmœ, œnameœ: œmessageœ, œoutput_typesœ: [œMessageœ]}",
  "target": "OpenAIModel-OcXkl",
  "targetHandle": "{œfieldNameœ: œinput_valueœ, œidœ: œOpenAIModel-OcXklœ, œinputTypesœ: [œMessageœ], œtypeœ: œstrœ}"
}
```

This edge shows that the `ChatInput` component outputs a `Message` type to the `target` node, which is the `OpenAIModel` node.
The `OpenAIModel` component accepts the `Message` type at the `input_value` field.

### Additional metadata and project information

Additional information about the flow is stored in the root `data` object.

* Metadata and project information including the name, description, and `last_tested_version` of the flow.
```json
{
  "name": "Basic Prompting",
  "description": "Perform basic prompting with an OpenAI model.",
  "tags": ["chatbots"],
  "id": "1511c230-d446-43a7-bfc3-539e69ce05b8",
  "last_tested_version": "1.0.19.post2",
  "gradient": "2",
  "icon": "Braces"
}
```

* Visual information about the flow defining the initial position of the flow in the workspace.
```json
"viewport": {
  "x": -37.61270157375441,
  "y": -155.91266341888854,
  "zoom": 0.7575251406952855
}
```

**Notes** are like comments to help you understand the flow within the workspace.
They may contain links, code snippets, and other information.
Notes are written in Markdown and stored as `node` objects.
```json
{
  "id": "undefined-kVLkG",
  "node": {
    "description": "## 📖 README\nPerform basic prompting with an OpenAI model.\n\n#### Quick Start\n- Add your **OpenAI API key** to the **OpenAI Model**\n- Open the **Playground** to chat with your bot.\n..."
  }
}
```
